I got up every day and went.
Now, Herbert would stay in bed some, but I didn't.
I always had breakfast on Sunday morning and came back.
And generally, Sunday morning and Sunday afternoon to me were study periods
because I was anxious to do well in my studies, and I did reasonably well.
And I was able to—I really wanted to get a combined ME petroleum degree, and I could have petitioned for it.
because I took a three-hour power course instead of a five-hour power course or something like that.
But the war came on on a Sunday in my junior year, and from that point on, I wanted to get through with school and get in the melee.
All right, let's jump to that.
You're a junior, beginning your junior year,
Uh, where were you when you heard the news about December 7, 1941?
I was in my room studying.
And they had the free show in Guyon Hall.
And the guys, when they came out of the free show, they hollered up at me.
I was in, we were in B ramp, uh, in, uh, the dormitory.
And they came out of school and on the military walk, hollered up at me.
And then they came up in the room and we all sat around and said, well, we'll never finish this semester.
They'll take us in and there was a lot of ifs and we're on the radio back and forth listening and talking and pretty much that evening, it went through that.
And then we had, next morning was
Monday and we went through our normal routine.
Did you listen to President Roosevelt's speech to the Congress on that Monday?
I don't believe so.
I believe we were in class and I didn't miss a class.
Did the Commandant call the Corps together or anybody?
I don't remember that, no.
We just pretty well went on but knew that our seniors were going to be gone at the end of that year and the end of the second semester.
and thought we probably might, but we didn't.
They kept us there and we took our fall semester that summer, our spring semester in the fall and got out.
So you started the trimester.
Yeah.
After your sophomore year, did you go to summer camp, ROTC camp, after your sophomore year?
No.
So you hadn't been to ROTC camp?
When Pearl Harbor came.
Do you remember it changing the routine in classes?
Did people become more serious about their studies?
Very much.
Very much more serious and very much more serious about military.
You recognize that
Some of the bull ticks that we called it was significant and we'd better learn it and learn it well.
And we were in a fortuitous position where when we finished our contract, we were getting paid then.
And when we finished it, we were going to be counted on to be officers and we had to be Aggie officers and they had to be good officers.
Why did you all think that Aggie officers were special?
Because they were.
They were good people.
The guys that were no good, they left A&M and went someplace else.
Who was the commandant then?
Do you remember?
Was Colonel Andy?
He wasn't, was he?
No, name another one.
I don't know that era.
Guys, I ought to know him, but I don't recall his name.
If you'd say it, I might remember.
Was it Walton?
I think he was just the president.
I don't believe he was the commandant.
Oh, oh, commandant.
Oh, I was thinking about president.
Oh, commandant.
Who was running the Corps?
Oh, I should know that.
He was a colonel.
I can't call his name, but he was a white-headed colonel.
When the war started, did the pranks and all begin to slow down?
Yes.
There was less mischief?
Less mischief and more...
Boy, we're in it and we're in it up to here and better apply yourself.
What did you and your parents, what communication did you all have?
What did you say to each other when the war started?
Well, mother and dad asked were they going to pull us out of school right then and I said there's no way, I have no knowledge of that.
Nothing has been said about that.
And they were just more concerned that you get your, they were concerned that you get a college education.
So you come home Christmas.
Did some of your buddies drop out of school and go volunteer?
Some did, but I wouldn't say any of my buddies or people that I knew.
You'd hear stories about them.
But most Aggies stayed in school?
Yes.
When did they announce, as far as you remember, the trimester program?
Spring of 42?
Yeah, in the spring of 42 and I knew when that spring semester was over that you had about a week off and I went down to Galveston with a bunch of the Houston people and we stayed down there about three days.
We came back to school to get ready because we were serious and we wanted to get a
What would a group of, a small group of Aggies do in Galveston?
What did y'all have?
What kind of weekend did y'all have?
We went crab fishing and had a big pot and boiled those crabs in the pot and swam in the surf.
Did you do any partying?
Very little.
We were, the only summer I was down there was, the war was four or five months old and we were pretty well concerned with that and thought hopefully that we would get to finish our college education.
But we were starting our spring, what really was our fall semester that summer and going to be our spring semester in the fall.
We got out just before Christmas.
Back before the war started, where did Aggies, what kind, what did Aggies do to have a good time in College Station and Bryan?
Where did Aggies go to have a good time?
Oh gosh, I can't call
Was Uncle Ed?
A&M's here, yeah.
I'm talking about the railroad track was down there.
What was this area down here?
Uncle Ed's?
Yeah, Uncle Ed's.
Describe Uncle Ed's.
Well, Uncle Ed's was a beer joint to me.
That's what it was.
And it was...
It was, I'd say, four times the size of this office.
And had booths and people went down there.
Did people behave themselves?
Pretty well.
Is it a place where you would have taken your mother and dad?
No, I wouldn't have taken them there.
And did Uncle Ed worry about the legal minimum age of a beer drinker?
I don't think he did.
Now, and whiskey was not legal in Brazos County then, was it?
No, it wasn't.
You had to go across the river.
Did y'all call it Whiskey Bridge?
I don't recall that.
All right.
Later, that's what they would nickname it.
You went across Whiskey Bridge to... Oh, you did.
What do we call it?
Going across the river and get... I've never heard anybody mention a bootlegger.
Did you ever hear of a bootlegger in Brazos County?
No, I didn't.
And I've never heard of a house of ill repute in Brazos County.
Did you ever hear of any?
I didn't know of any if there was.
And did the chicken ranch exist in those days?
Yeah.
It did?
Chicken ranch did.
Did you ever hear of Aggies talking about going to the chicken ranch?
Yeah.
I don't believe I ever did because I always had girls that from Dallas that
I had known, and matter of fact, probably for the last three years, was, this was my, the girl that I eventually married, and she was going to school, did I name it?
Stevens.
Stevens, up in Missouri.
Yeah, sure.
I was, I used to go to the dances and.
Did she ever come down there to visit?
Yes.
Where did she stay when she was?
Stayed with one of the professors in one of the professors houses.
There on campus?
Yes.
How did you, how did you Aggies treat those girls when they came to a campus dance?
Well, it depends on what it was.
What I'd do is, when Jerry was up at school in Missouri, I'd go to the dances about 9 o'clock.
And I'd just stand there and watch.
And when somebody caught my eye, I'd wink at them.
And if they winked back, then I'd go tag them.
And who you got a date with?
They'd say, oh, God, he's a nerd, isn't he?
And you want to get you ahead of him and have a late date where you're staying.
And they had to be staying there on campus for me to go because I didn't have a car to get to Brian if they were staying there.
I'd chuck them.
Where would you all then go on a late date?
down to the petroleum building.
Pasco Martin was one of my professors.
And Pasco gave me a passkey and we'd go in and go down to the women's restroom and in there they had a sofa and two easy chairs.
And I'd take them there because I was afoot.
But that was a good place to take them.
And now, and when the girls came to a dance, they wore big formal dresses.
Is that right?
Yeah.
And during that era, did bus or train loads of Tessies come down?
I didn't know about it if they did.
I didn't ever, I'll, when I went to the dances, and this is my junior and senior year,
Uh, I usually had been studying all Saturday afternoon.
We'd go to the dance and, uh,
try to get in without paying the dollar.
But then I'd stand there and watch, and you'd see girls, and if one of them would catch your eye, you'd wink at them, and if they wink back, there's one I'll try, and another I'll try, and another I'll try.
Tell him you feel sick.
Tell him you want to go back and try to get a late date.
Do you remember any big bands of the famous bands that came to play at A&M?
Oh, yeah.
We had a bunch of them.
I'm not good on band names, but... Dorsey's, Kay Kaiser, Guy Lombardo... Those, and, uh... Glenn Miller?
Yeah, and then what's the one now that's, uh...
He's still on every Sunday night.
Oh.
Oh, boy.
From one of the Dakotas.
Yeah.
That guy.
He always made a trip to A&M every year.
And how did, while the dance is underway, how did the Aggies behave?
At Cebisa?
They behaved like gentlemen.
They really did.
Did Aggie smoke much then?
Yeah.
And what were they smoking?
Camels, Lucky Strikes, Chesterfields.
And was it okay to go outside Cebisa and smoke?
Yeah, on the steps.
Did anybody smoke cigars?
I don't remember that.
A few people smoked pipes in studying, but I don't recall anybody with cigars.
Did Aggies chew tobacco or dip snuff?
Yeah.
I don't know about dipping snuff, but you had some of them that chewed tobacco.
I remember that.
I'd tell them, spit in the grass.
I'd spit on the sidewalk.
Did you guys even know that marijuana or heroin existed?
We knew it existed, but I never knew anybody that had it or never knew anybody that used it or tried to use it.
And never heard of any of the drugs of today?
No.
I didn't.
I don't think that anybody did.
When you all went downtown Bryan, where were the great places, what did anybody go to Bryan for?
I don't believe I went to Bryan twice in my whole career at A&M.
What was there at Northgate?
Well, the post office was at Northgate, and across from the post office was this way, but then the street here, there was a drug store there.
I think Hollicks had a place there.
Lupo?
Lupo had a place there.
Did you ever borrow money from Lupo?
No.
Never did.
About how much spending money did you have?
I'd probably have a dollar a week, maybe 75 cents a week.
And you'd, what did you spend that on?
Uh, cigarettes, uh, generally that's pretty much what I spent it on.
And uh, uh.
You'd buy cigarettes then were 16 cents a pack.
If you needed to make an emergency long-distance phone call, where was the phone for a boy in Hart Hall?
At the bottom of B ramp.
Do you remember any phone call, any long-distance calls you made?
Oh, I may have...
call my parents once on when we went to school all the time.
Mother's birthday was in July and dad was in August and if I was there I'd probably call them.
When you worked in the summer did you save that money for your spending money or did you use part of that to pay
your fees at A&M?
I used that for my spending money.
And the family paid my fees at A&M and never asked me to participate in that.
But my mother's birthday is July 28th.
That was August the 26th.
And I spent my summer money that I made in the summers
trying to buy big presents for mother and then a big present for dad.
What kind of encouragement did they give you while you were a student to keep on trying, keep on working hard?
Well, I don't know who Winsaki was, but buckle down, Winsaki, buckle down.
You can win Winsaki if you buckle down.
And that was, uh, something that dad taught me.
And, uh, he said, uh, you want to make your mama proud of you, bum.
And that's, you don't goof off and, uh, it's costing money to keep you down here and make your mama proud of you.
Do you remember any problems that came up while you were there and you went to somebody for advice and how do I deal with this?
I don't really recall anything that if I did I probably would have gone to oh gosh
Jack Hayes, one of the petroleum PE profs.
What was another guy?
Watson Watkins, start with a W. I don't remember, but Pascal Martin, you remember who Pascal was?
He was in the training department.
Mr. Vance, Jack Hayes, I've said that.
They were people that I felt comfortable talking to about.
As you look back on those courses you had,
the preparation you had in engineering, particularly in petroleum, how would you evaluate the quality of the instruction you got at A&M?
I think it was very good.
Mr. Vance did an interesting thing.
Uh, probably the last half of my junior year, and I was doing good, and, uh, I was top kick of the outfit, and, uh, Mr. Vance said, uh, I want to see you after class.
And so, I went in there, and he said, did you ever know him?
Well, he's big tall, uh,
Will you go get this book for me?
And he gave me a slip of paper with the book on it, and the book's name.
And so I go to the library, and the book isn't there.
But it's checked out to somebody.
I've forgotten who it was checked out to, but I knew the person that it was checked out to.
And so he was—I found out where he was.
He had a class in the academic building.
And I went over to the academic building.
I was cutting the class to do this because I wanted to make an impression on Mr. Vance.
And I found out where he was, and he was either the last or the next-to-last classroom.
There was two classrooms and then the office of his professor.
I went in, interrupted the class, told his professor I had an urgent message for him from Mr. Vance, head of the Petroleum Department.
Could I speak to him a minute?
Took him outside, told him I wanted the book.
And he said, well, I've got it with me.
And I said, well, give it to me and let me have it.
And I'll take it to Mr. Vance, and then I'll tell Mr. Vance to give it back to you.
So he did, and I took it to Mr. Vance, and Mr. Vance said, uh, that's fine.
Did you learn anything?
And I said, uh, well, I learned where the book was.
If you're asking me that, Mr. Vance, I learned it was checked out of the library.
I found out who had it.
I found out where he was, and I went and got it.
I learned that.
And he said, well, you didn't turn around and come back and tell me that it was checked out, and you couldn't do the job I sent you to do?
And I said, no, sir.
I decided I'd better find that book.
Don't ever forget it as long as you live.
Find that book.
And that was an impressive lesson to me.
And I now think the old man must have set the procedure up to see what I'd do.
But I didn't come back and tell him I can't get it.
You got it.
I got it.
He had a long bony finger.
That's a good lesson and don't ever forget it as long as you live.
And I cannot tell you how many times in my life I have been frustrated at not getting something accomplished and thinking of that and think that Mr. Vance probably set that whole thing up
to see how I'd react to it and what I'd do.
And, brother, don't come back and say I can't.
You find a way.
Now, that's exactly the kinds of things that we're delighted to have in these, those personal experiences.
As you recall those courses, was the emphasis on the theoretical side of engineering or the practical applied?
More of the practical applied.
That's what I got out of it.
And had these people, many of these men, actually been involved in petroleum?
Had they actually done?
Well, Mr. Vance had.
And I think Pascal Martin had.
Those were the only two I knew that
Were there any courses outside engineering that you also remember as important that helped you?
Or any teachers?
I took an English class, and it was in public speaking, and there was 20 of us in there, and they seated us alphabetically, and the Bs, I was the first one.
And I cannot recall his name.
He was a small—he was a short man, a little heavy set.
But he was in the back of the room, and he called my name and said, I want you to make a ten-minute speech.
And I said, well, what do you want me to speak about?
He said, you're making the speech.
And so I talked about the evils of alcohol and loose women to the incoming college student.
You know, I just had to think of something walking up when he told me that.
And I just thought this, because that was my junior year and we met with the incoming freshmen and the, both the first sergeant and the CO spoke to them about that and it was,
It was a good thing to teach the kid.
The first time he's out from under parental supervision and he is his own master and he needs to not succumb to the evils of alcohol and loose women to the detriment.
Was that teacher perhaps Professor Kofer?
David Brooks Cofer?
Oh, I had Cofer, and that may have been who it was.
I forgot.
Did he teach public speaking?
I don't know.
I can't recall.
Describe going to the library in your days.
What was the library like?
Well, the library was run by women, some of whom were very attractive.
Was Tommy Mayo, though, the librarian?
I don't remember.
Did you go over there to study much?
No.
We were in Hart Hall.
And I pretty well did my studying in Hart Hall.
And I got to live, I don't know if you remember B-Ramp, the corner rooms.
I was the only sophomore.
They picked me and they sent me there.
In my sophomore year, I was in the corner room and B ramp.
My junior year, I was first sergeant and I was in the corner room.
My senior year, I was CO and I was in the corner room.
I had one of those big corner rooms.
When you became a junior or senior, what did you expect the fish to do in your room?
Clean it up.
Then clean it up and see that the books, that time we had my bookcase, see that it was straightened up and get the habit clean.
Now I was probably in class an average of six and a half hours a day.
both my junior and senior years.
I was taking extra courses, and I was going to petition for the combined degree, and then because I had taken only a three-hour power course when you were supposed to take a five-hour course, and I had another three hours where I'd have to get a petition, but it was time for me to go to war, and I didn't bother doing that, and
But for that two hours?
Two courses, two hours.
But it was the ME degree that I was missing.
I had the petroleum.
When you were a junior or senior, did the freshman ever try to play any pranks on you in your outfit?
Not when I was a junior or senior.
They did as a sophomore.
Were any of them creative?
Mostly buckets of water or...